W-14793301 W-14880984 partner and customer connector guide (#209)
mulesoft/docs-general: modules/ROOT/pages/customer-connector-upgrade.adoc

> = Customer Guide for Upgrading and Testing Custom Connectors for Java 17

Reviewer: I guess this "Customer Guide" is necessary to distinguish from the Partner Guide? And the audience is the most important bit (so appears first)?

In general, we avoid self-referential terms like "Guide". If not required, then suggest something like:
Upgrading and Testing Custom Connectors for Java 17 (for Customers)

Question: who is the customer in this case? Is it our customer or our partner's customer? Ignore if this is obvious in context.

Author: The customer is for both, our customers and partner's customers

Upgrade and test your custom connectors for Java 17 to ensure compatibility within the MuleSoft ecosystem. 

== Before You Begin

Before upgrading and testing your custom connector for Java 17, you must be familiar with the following:

> * *How to run and compile your custom connector*

Reviewer: So, any text in bold will not be translated. Our guidance is to not use bold for emphasis. If you want it to stick out, consider using a DL.

Reviewer: Also, think about how to make these bullets parallel.
Should this be something like "Target Compilation Level"?

+
Ensure your custom connector runs with Java 17, but always use Java 8 as the target compilation level.
+
Because you must compile your custom connector with Java 8, use the Java compiler configuration from the Java SDK parent POM. You can’t use language features from Java 11 or Java 17. 

> * *-add-opens or -add-export directives*

Reviewer: Maybe instead something like "Unsupported directives"?

+
Do not set `-add-opens` or `-add-export` directives.

> * *Minimum Mule version caveats*

Reviewer: The other bullets also seem like caveats. I wonder if the intro should mention "considerations" and then remove this kind of language from the bullets?

+

> If your custom connector is running on Mule 4.5.x or earlier, you can’t run Java 17 tests that extend the MuleArtifactFunctionalTestCase, but you can still run Java 8 tests.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If your custom connector is running on Mule 4.5.x or earlier, you can’t run Java 17 tests that extend the `MuleArtifactFunctionalTestCase`, but you can still run Java 8 tests.
```

Reviewer: Not sure if that's correct, but the CamelCase makes me think it needs a font change.

+
To decouple the minimum Mule version when running tests, add the `-Dmunit.jvm` parameter to use Java 17 as described in <<test-your-custom-connector-with-munit>>.

[[upgrade-your-mule-sdk-connectors]]

> == Upgrade Your Custom Mule SDK Connectors

Reviewer: I think this should be a gerund, if all the H3s are subtasks.

Author: I thought the style guide says H2s and lower should be imperative? Basically the overall topic is upgrading custom connectors, and each H2 describes instructions on how to upgrade your custom connector depending on how it was generated (generated from Mule SDK, REST SDK, REST Connect). So each H2 isn't a task because each section doesn't relate to each other. Partners will likely just relate to one H2 and ignore the ones that don't apply to them

Reviewer: I don't think the Style Guide is that prescriptive. My [read](https://confluence.internal.salesforce.com/display/MTDT/MuleSoft+CX+Writing+Style+Reference#MuleSoftCXWritingStyleReference-gerundtitles) is that, if a title gathers a group of related tasks, it gets a gerund, even if it's an H2.

In this case, you have an H2/[imperative](https://confluence.internal.salesforce.com/display/MTDT/MuleSoft+CX+Writing+Style+Reference#MuleSoftCXWritingStyleReference-imperativetitles) title for a section that has no steps - it's a container for H3 imperative-title/task topics, so it should get a gerund.

Reviewer: (We need better guidance on this - the content templates don't give examples!)

Author: So in this case, H1s, H2s, and H3s are gerunds?

Reviewer: I think the H1 and H2 are gerunds and the H3 are imperative, since they are the tasks that contain the steps.

Upgrade your custom Mule SDK (Java SDK and XML SDK) connectors to Java 17.

=== Upgrade Third-Party Libraries

> Upgrade your custom connector’s third-party libraries to be compatible with Java 17.

Reviewer: possessive necessary?

> Upgrade your custom connector’s third-party libraries to be compatible with Java 17.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Upgrade your custom connector’s third-party libraries to be compatible with Java 17:
```

Reviewer: Colon to introduce the list.

* Java EE libraries
+

> Mule 4.6 exposes Java EE libraries differently. You must add the following BOM dependency to your custom connector and, if applicable, ensure the provided conflicting library is properly excluded. You can also add the libraries in the BOM dependency separately.

Reviewer: differently than...what?

Reviewer: "exclude the provided conflicting library."?

Reviewer: I sort of want an intro sentence. Remove "following" from second sentence and add an intro?
Add the following BOM ... :

Author: How does this look?

Reviewer: I'm not seeing the change?

Author: previous: Mule 4.6 exposes Java EE libraries differently. You must add the following BOM dependency to your custom connector and, if applicable, ensure the provided conflicting library is properly excluded. You can also add the libraries in the BOM dependency separately.

now: Mule 4.6 exposes Java EE libraries differently than earlier Mule versions. You must add the BOM dependency to your custom connector and, if applicable, exclude the provided conflicting library. You can also add the libraries in the BOM dependency separately.

Reviewer: That's great!

+
[source,java,linenums]
----
<muleJavaEeBomVersion>4.6.0-20231025</muleJavaEeBomVersion>
  <dependencyManagement>
    <dependencies>
      <dependency>
        <groupId>org.mule</groupId>
        <artifactId>mule-javaee-runtime-bom</artifactId>
        <version>${muleJavaEeBomVersion}</version>
        <type>pom</type>
        <scope>import</scope>
      </dependency>
    </dependencies>
  </dependencyManagement>
----

* External libraries
+
Upgrade external libraries, which are third-party libraries that are not bundled with your custom connector. Some examples include a JDBC driver, JMS broker client, or Groovy runtime. The following example shows a JDBC driver external library configuration: 
+
[source,java,linenums]
----
@ExternalLib(name = "MySQL JDBC Driver",
description = "A JDBC driver that supports connection to the MySQL Database",

> nameRegexpMatcher = "(.*)\\.jar",

Reviewer: I wonder if there's a way to escape that asterisk to not bold everything afterward. Does it look OK in the build?

Author: Yup!

requiredClassName = "com.mysql.jdbc.Driver",
coordinates = "mysql:mysql-connector-java:5.1.44")
public class MySqlConnectionProvider implements ConnectionProvider<Connection> {
  //
}
----
+
You must update your external libraries to a version that is compatible with Java 17. 

=== Review Your Code

> Even though you compile your custom connector with Java 8, ensure you can run your custom connector with Java 17. Reviewing your code is important because there are some restrictions that are flagged as warnings in Java 11 but are flagged as failures and can’t be disabled in Java 17. For example, reflection is more restricted in Java 17, so you must review your code to ensure there are no illegal actions. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After you compile your custom connector with Java 8, ensure you can run your custom connector with Java 17. Reviewing your code is important because some restrictions are flagged as warnings in Java 11 but are flagged as failures and can’t be disabled in Java 17. For example, reflection is more restricted in Java 17, so you must review your code to ensure there are no illegal actions. 
```

> Learn about the different changes in Java 17 to review your code effectively:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Learn about the changes in Java 17 to review your code effectively:
```

Reviewer: To help you review your code..., learn more...?

* JDK Migration Guide
+

> See the https://docs.oracle.com/en/java/javase/17/migrate/getting-started.html#GUID-C25E2B1D-6C24-4403-8540-CFEA875B994A[Oracle JDK Migration Guide]. It contains for a full list of the changes made in Java 17. Use the guide to assess the impact to your code.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
See the https://docs.oracle.com/en/java/javase/17/migrate/getting-started.html#GUID-C25E2B1D-6C24-4403-8540-CFEA875B994A[Oracle JDK Migration Guide] for a full list of the changes made in Java 17. Use the guide to assess the impact to your code.
```

> * Mule Runtime Changes

Reviewer: "Mule Runtime" should probably be "Mule runtime engine". Check the Term Ref:
https://confluence.internal.salesforce.com/display/MTDT/Term+Presentation+Reference

> * Mule Runtime Changes

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Mule runtime engine changes
```

+

> See Mule Runtime. It contains a full list of the Java 17 changes made in Mule Runtime. 

Reviewer: Should Mule Runtime be a link?

> See Mule Runtime. It contains a full list of the Java 17 changes made in Mule Runtime. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
See Mule Runtime for a full list of the Java 17 changes made in Mule runtime engine. 
```

Reviewer: Shoot, I just saw your note about only 108-162. I thought it was for the other file.

Constructors and setters are required if your class is instantiated, and getters are required if your class is read. If your class is returned and not instantiated, only getters are required. However, using both getters and setters simplify the validation and certification process. 

[[upgrade-your-rest-connect-connectors]]
== Upgrade Your Custom REST Connect Connectors 

Upgrade your custom REST Connect connectors to Java 17.

REST Connect now supports Java 17. REST Connect connectors are generated from an API specification using REST Connect, so all you have to do to make the connector Java 17-compatible is republish the API specification to Exchange. See xref:exchange::to-deploy-using-rest-connect.adoc[REST Connect Connector Generator].

IMPORTANT: REST Connect now adds support for TLS. To save time, you can enable TLS at the same time with the Java 17 upgrade. This way, you only need to generate the connector and test your apps once.

> [[test-your-custom-connector-with-munit]]

Reviewer: Skipped to here.

== Test Your Custom Connector with MUnit

Run your MUnit tests to test compatibility of your connector against Java 17. Ensure your local JDK version is 17. 

. Open the pom.xml file of your Mule app.

> . Replace the mule-maven-plugin version with the ${mule.maven.plugin.version} parameter.

Reviewer: font changes here?

> . If you haven’t already, add the munit-maven-plugin. Replace the version with the ${munit.version} parameter and replace the runtimeVersion with the ${app.runtime} parameter.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. If you haven’t already, add the munit-maven-plugin. Replace the version with the `${munit.version}` parameter and replace `runtimeVersion` with the `${app.runtime}` parameter.
```

Reviewer: Should munit-maven-plugin be in a different font?

+
[source,xml,linenums]
----
	<plugin>
		<groupId>com.mulesoft.munit.tools</groupId>
		<artifactId>munit-maven-plugin</artifactId>
		<version>${munit.version}</version>
		<executions>
			<execution>
				<id>test</id>
				<phase>test</phase>
				<goals>
					<goal>test</goal>
					<goal>coverage-report</goal>
				</goals>
			</execution>
		</executions>
		<configuration>
			<coverage>
				<runCoverage>true</runCoverage>
				<formats>
					<format>html</format>
				</formats>
			</coverage>
			<runtimeVersion>${app.runtime}</runtimeVersion>
			<dynamicPorts>
				<dynamicPort>http.port</dynamicPort>
			</dynamicPorts>
		</configuration>
	</plugin>
----
+

> NOTE: MUnit 3.1 is only compatible with Mule runtime 4.3.0 and later. If your connector is compatible with Mule runtime 4.2.0 and earlier, you must create a legacy profile that overrides the MUnit version.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
NOTE: MUnit 3.1 is compatible only with Mule runtime 4.3.0 and later. If your connector is compatible with Mule runtime 4.2.0 and earlier, you must create a legacy profile that overrides the MUnit version.
```

> . If you have MUnit dependencies, such as munit-runner and munit-tools, replace the version for each dependency with the ${munit-version} parameter.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. If you have MUnit dependencies, such as `munit-runner` and `munit-tools`, replace the version for each dependency with the `${munit-version}` parameter.
```
